Rework the Client Resources chapter (#62)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/resources/client/models/bakedmodel.md

# Baked Models

`BakedModel`s are the in-code representation of a shape with textures. They can be obtained from multiple sources, for example by calling `UnbakedModel#bake` (default model loader) or `IUnbakedGeometry#bake` ([custom model loaders][modelloader]). Some [block entity renderers][ber] also make use of baked models. There is no limit to how complex a model may be.

## Methods of `BakedModel`

### `getQuads`

The most important method of a baked model is `getQuads`. This method is responsible for returning a list of `BakedQuad`s, which can then be sent to the GPU. A quad compares to a triangle in a modeling program (and in most other games), however due to Minecraft's general focus on squares, the developers elected to use quads (4 vertices) instead of triangles (3 vertices) for rendering in Minecraft. `getQuads` has five parameters that can be used:

- A `BlockState`: The [blockstate] being rendered. May be null, indicating that an item is being rendered.

> - A `Direction`: The direction of the face being culled against. May be null, indicating that no culling should occur. Will always be null for items.

Reviewer: Items go through all possible directions (and null) just like blocks (see `ItemRenderer#renderModelLists`), so the direction is not always null for items.

- A `RandomSource`: A client-bound random source you can use for randomization.

> - A `ModelData`: The extra model data to use. This may contain additional data from the block entity needed for rendering.

Reviewer: The additional data can also be supplied by `BakedModel#getModelData` (see my comment there). Also, might be worth mentioning this is basically unused and always `EMPTY` for items.

> - A `RenderType`: The [render type][rendertype] to use for rendering the block. May be null, indicating that the default render type should be used. The default render type is looked up in `ItemBlockRenderTypes`, and if no render type is found there either, `minecraft:solid` is used. Do never call on `ItemBlockRenderTypes` yourself!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `RenderType`: The [render type][rendertype] to use for rendering the block. May be null, indicating that the default render type should be used. The default render type is looked up in `ItemBlockRenderTypes`, and if no render type is found there either, `minecraft:solid` is used. You should never call on `ItemBlockRenderTypes` yourself!
```

> - A `RenderType`: The [render type][rendertype] to use for rendering the block. May be null, indicating that the default render type should be used. The default render type is looked up in `ItemBlockRenderTypes`, and if no render type is found there either, `minecraft:solid` is used. Do never call on `ItemBlockRenderTypes` yourself!

Author: Would you mind elaborating on this?

| `boolean usesBlockLight()`                                                    | Whether to use block light when lighting the model or not.                                                                                                                                                     |
| `boolean isCustomRenderer()`                                                  | If true, skips normal rendering and calls an associated [block entity renderer][ber]'s `renderByItem` method instead. If false, renders through the default renderer.                                          |
| `ItemOverrides getOverrides()`                                                | Returns the [`ItemOverrides`][itemoverrides] associated with this model. This is generally only relevant on item models.                                                                                       |
| `ModelData getModelData(BlockAndTintGetter, BlockPos, BlockState, ModelData)` | Returns the model data to use for the model. Mainly used for [block entity renderers][ber].                                                                                                                    |

> | `TextureAtlasSprite getParticleIcon(ModelData)`                               | Returns the particle sprite to use for the model. May use the model data to use different particle sprites for different model data values. NeoForge-added, replacing the vanilla overload with no parameters. |

Author: For which method exactly?

> | `TextureAtlasSprite getParticleIcon(ModelData)`                               | Returns the particle sprite to use for the model. May use the model data to use different particle sprites for different model data values. NeoForge-added, replacing the vanilla overload with no parameters. |

Reviewer 2: getParticleTexture I think is the vanilla name.

> | `TextureAtlasSprite getParticleIcon(ModelData)`                               | Returns the particle sprite to use for the model. May use the model data to use different particle sprites for different model data values. NeoForge-added, replacing the vanilla overload with no parameters. |

Author: Ah, that would be the `getParticleIcon()` overload without parameters that is already mentioned. Will add the name again for clarification.

> | `ModelData getModelData(BlockAndTintGetter, BlockPos, BlockState, ModelData)` | Returns the model data to use for the model. Mainly used for [block entity renderers][ber].                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: Actually `getModelData` is probably used more often by models for blocks without a block entity (e.g. connected texture mods, since they can figure out what blocks the current block is surrounded by). Block entities already have a way of supplying model data via `BlockEntity#getModelData`.

## `BakedModelWrapper`

A `BakedModelWrapper` can be used to modify an already existing `BakedModel`. `BakedModelWrapper` is a subclass of `BakedModel` that accepts another `BakedModel` (the "original" model) in the constructor and by default redirects all methods to the original model. Your implementation can then override only select methods, like so:

```java
// The generic parameter may optionally be a more specific subclass of BakedModel.
// If it is, the constructor parameter must match that type.
public class MyBakedModelWrapper extends BakedModelWrapper<BakedModel> {
    // Pass the original model to super.
    public MyBakedModelWrapper(BakedModel originalModel) {
        super(originalModel);
    }
    
    // Override whatever methods you want here. You may also access originalModel if needed.
}
```

> After writing your model wrapper class, you must apply the wrappers to the models it should affect. Do so in a [client-side][sides] [event handler][event] for `ModelEvent.ModifyBakingResult`:

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should be encouraging wrapping this prominently in the documentation. I have seen several mods abuse it when they should just use a custom model loader for their models instead.

Reviewer 2: Then it's probably better to list when it makes to use a wrapper or a custom model loader.

After writing your model wrapper class, you must apply the wrappers to the models it should affect. Do so in a [client-side][sides] [event handler][event] for `ModelEvent.ModifyBakingResult`:

```java
@SubscribeEvent
public static void modifyBakingResult(ModelEvent.ModifyBakingResult event) {
    // For block models
    event.getModels().computeIfPresent(
        // The model resource location of the model to modify. Get it from
        // BlockModelShaper#stateToModelLocation with the blockstate to be affected as a parameter.
        BlockModelShaper.stateToModelLocation(MyBlocksClass.EXAMPLE_BLOCK.defaultBlockState()),
        // A BiFunction with the location and the original models as parameters, returning the new model.
        (location, model) -> new MyBakedModelWrapper(model);
    );
    // For item models
    event.getModels().computeIfPresent(
        // The model resource location of the model to modify.
        new ModelResourceLocation("examplemod", "example_item", "inventory"),
        // A BiFunction with the location and the original models as parameters, returning the new model.
        (location, model) -> new MyBakedModelWrapper(model);
    );
}
```

:::warning

> It is generally encouraged to use a [custom model loader][modelloader] over baked model wrappers when possible. Custom model loaders can also use `BakedModelWrapper`s if needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is generally encouraged to use a [custom model loader][modelloader] over wrapping baked models in `ModelEvent.ModifyBakingResult` when possible. Custom model loaders can also use `BakedModelWrapper`s if needed.
```

| `ModelData getModelData(BlockAndTintGetter, BlockPos, BlockState, ModelData)` | Returns the model data to use for the model. This method is passed an existing `ModelData` that is either the result of `BlockEntity#getModelData()` if the block has an associated block entity, or `ModelData.EMPTY` if that is not the case. This method can be used for blocks that need model data, but do not have a block entity, for example for blocks with connected textures.                    |
| `TextureAtlasSprite getParticleIcon(ModelData)`                               | Returns the particle sprite to use for the model. May use the model data to use different particle sprites for different model data values. NeoForge-added, replacing the vanilla `getParticleIcon()` overload with no parameters.                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `ChunkRenderTypeSet getRenderTypes(BlockState, RandomSource, ModelData)`      | Returns a `ChunkRenderTypeSet` containing the render type(s) to use for rendering the block model. By default falls back to the normal model-bound render type lookup, which always yields a set with one element. Note that `ChunkRenderTypeSet` is not actually a set, but an ordered `Iterable<List>` (so more of a list). Only used for block models, item models use the overload below.               |

Reviewer 3: > By default falls back to the normal model-bound render type lookup

What is "normal model-bound render type lookup" referring to? This should clarify that certain vanilla models are patched to use the render type specified in the model JSON if present and otherwise fall back to an `ItemBlockRenderTypes` lookup with the given `BlockState`. This also applies to the item overload below, except that the lookup is done with the given `ItemStack`.

> Note that `ChunkRenderTypeSet` is not actually a set, but an ordered `Iterable<List>`

Apart from implementation details being completely irrelevant here, the `ChunkRenderTypeSet` is actually a set in that it is backed by a `BitSet` and can only contain each `RenderType` exactly once.
